---
sidebarDepth: 3
displayAllHeaders: true
---
# Some Concepts in PPIO

## Overview

**PPIO** is a decentralized programmable storage and delivery network.

## Advantages

PPIO is intentionally built with a minimal feature set that focuses on simplicity. Following are some of advantages of PPIO:

- **Create/Delete Buckets** - Create and delete a bucket. Buckets are the fundamental container in PPIO for data storage. Every user could create not more than 100 buckets.
- **Store/Delete Objects** - Store an infinite amount of data in a bucket. Upload as many objects as you like into a bucket. Each object can contain up to 10 GB of data (8 TB in future). Each object is stored and retrieved using a unique developer-assigned key.
- **Download Objects** - Download your data or other's data with sharecode.
- **Renew Objects** - Renew your storage plan. You can renew the object's copies and chiprice(See [Chiprice](#chiprice)), or extend storage time.

And other advanced features:

- **Tasks** - Most time-consuming operations in PPIO are asynchronous. Asynchronous operation will generate a task. Developer can manage these tasks by specific APIs. See [Task](#task).
- **Indexdata** - Management of indexdata. See [Indexdata](#indexdata).

## Chiprice
- The concept of `chiprice` is very similar to the `gasprice` in Ethereum. And the units of all prices in the following documents are `wei`. `wei` is a basic unit of PPIO coin. The conversion relationship between wei and ppcoin is as follows:  
 **1 PPcoin = 10<sup>18</sup>wei = 10<sup>15</sup>Kwei = 10<sup>12</sup>Mwei = 10<sup>9</sup>Gwei = 10<sup>6</sup>Twei = 10<sup>3</sup>Pwei**

- Each 128KB’s content storaging per hour per copy need  1 chi. Each 128KB’s content downloading need 10 chi.

- Chiprice is user-defined, but it's best not to be less than **100 wei**, otherwise there may be no miners willing to work.

## User Credentials
PPIO's user credentials are generated by the PPIO wallet. You can get more information [here](../wallet/)

## Concepts
### Bucket

Bucket is the basic container for storing objects. An object must be stored in a bucket. Developer could organize namespaces with buckets and use a bucket like an unlimited capacity folder that can contain any number of objects.

### Object

Objects are the fundamental entities stored in PPIO. Objects consist of object data and indexdata. The data is encrypted and fragmented, it's opaque to PPIO. An object is identified by key. An object is uniquely identified within a bucket by a key (name).

#### Object State

|State|State Code|Description|
|--|--|--|
|Bid|0|all copies are not available|
|Part-Deal|1|at least one copy is available, but not all copies are available|
|Deal|2|all copies are available|
|Pending-End|3|nearly expires, wait settlement|
|End|4|expired|

### Indexdata

PPIO is a decentralized data storage and delivery platform. PPIO uses unique data partition and encryption algorithms, which ensures that user data can only be indexed and retrieved by a unique private key. And there must be a data structure to maintain the mapping of an object to fragmentation data, which called indexdata. The metadata of the object included in indexdata two.

### Task

Most time-consuming operations in PPIO are asynchronous. Asynchronous operation will generate a task, developer can check the operation with task.

#### Task Type

There are two types, permenent and temporary. The main difference between them is lifetime.

```nohighlight
permenent task: long lifetime, even after task finished or error. Permenent task will be persisted in local database. Develop can delete it by API.
temporary task: short lifetime, will be deleted immediately by PPIO after task finished or error. Temporary task won't be persisted.
```

Every asynchronous call will return a task id, developer can get task state or progress by specific APIs.

#### Task State

A task has five states：

```go
// TaskCommonState chunk state in a task
type TaskCommonState int

const (
    // Pending initializing
    Pending TaskCommonState = iota
    // Running
    Running
    // Paused stopped
    Paused
    // Finished done
    Finished
    // Error end with error
    Error
)

// TaskCommonStateNames type name
var TaskCommonStateNames = [5]string{
   "Pending",
   "Running",
   "Paused",
   "Finished",
   "Error",
}
```

#### Operations of Task

All operations as follow:

|lifetime   |pause  |resume |delete |list-tasks |
|--         |-----  |------ |------ |---------- |
|permenent  |ok     |ok     |ok     |ok         |
|temporary  |NA     |NA     |ok     |NA         |

Task in Running state can not be deleted. Please pause it before deleting.

list-tasks:

```nohighlight
ok:can be listed with list-tasks command。
NA:can not be listed with list-tasks commnad。
```

#### Task Progress

Developer can get task progress and state by specific APIs. These APIs usually return the struct:

```go
type JobProgress struct {
    // put/get/copy/delete/renew/getstatus...
    Action string
    TotalSubJobs    int
    FinishedSubJobs int
    TotalBytes    int64
    FinishedBytes int64
    // Pending/Running/Paused/Finished/Error
    JobState string
    Err      string
    CurrentSubJobProgress *JobProgress
    ExResult string
}
```

Developer could get state by JobState field and get progress by TotalBytes/FinishedBytes fields. Use JobState==Finished (not FinishedBytes==TotalBytes) to check that a task has finished or not.

## Developing Reference
* [PPIO cli reference](../cli/)
* [PPIO rpc reference](../api/)
