# Physical Layer

Disk storage and network bandwidth are the core components of PPIO’s physical layer. They are the most important resources in PPIO’s storage network, and therefore are also the basis in evaluating each storage lessor’s contribution to the network. A lessor with large storage capacity but limited bandwidth can contribute more in providing storage service. While lessors with less storage but higher bandwidth can contribute more in providing downloading service. Lessors with large storage and high bandwidth contributes to the network the most and in turn gets rewarded the most.

- **Storage:** Phycial storage may be consisted of Flash drive, Solid State Drive (SSD), Hard Disk Drive (HDD), Tape and Optical Disc (OD), etc. In PPIO’s storage network, different types of storage can play different roles based on their characteristics. For example, SSD can be used to store and provide fast retrieval service for popular content. The life span of the storage media also needs to accommodate the length of the storage contract, for example, tape and optical disk can be used for long time storage while SSD and Flash can cover short term storage uses.

- **Network bandwidth:** In bit/per second, network bandwidth measures the maximum rate of data transfer across a given network path. Network transmission media can include coaxial cable, twisted pair cable, optical fiber cable and wireless connection. Their bandwidth varies a lot, from Kilobits and Megabits per second to Gigabits per second. Network service can be categorized into business and residential networks, and they have very different characteristics in bandwidth usage. For example, use of business bandwidth is usually high during the day, while the use of residential bandwidth stays low. The opposite happens during night time and weekends. PPIO’s distributed storage network adapts to these dynamics in order to make efficient use of the available bandwidth in the network.
